README.md, before:

# Doctor Booking System API

A NestJS-based API for managing doctor appointment slots and bookings.

## Description

This API allows doctors to create appointment slots with various recurrence options, and patients to book available slots.

## Features

- Doctor management
- Slot creation with recurrence options
- Appointment booking
- Viewing available slots and booked appointments

## Technologies Used

- NestJS
- TypeORM
- PostgreSQL
- Docker

## Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose
- Node.js (for local development)
- Yarn or `npm` (for local development)

### Running with Docker

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd doctor-booking-system-api
   ```

2. Start the application with Docker Compose:

   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

3. The API will be available at <http://localhost:3000>

### Running Locally

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd doctor-booking-system-api
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   yarn install
   ```

3. Create a `.env` file with the following content:

   ```
   DATABASE_HOST=localhost
   DATABASE_PORT=5432
   DATABASE_USER=postgres
   DATABASE_PASSWORD=postgres
   DATABASE_NAME=doctor_booking
   PORT=3000
   ```

4. Start the application:

   ```bash
   yarn start:dev
   ```

5. The API will be available at <http://localhost:3000>

## API Documentation

### Health Check

- **GET /health**
  - Returns the health status of the API

### Doctor Endpoints

- **POST /doctors**
  - Create a new doctor
- **GET /doctors/{doctorId}/slots**
  - Get all slots for a doctor
- **POST /doctors/{doctorId}/slots**
  - Create slots for a doctor
- **GET /doctors/{doctorId}/bookings**
  - Get all bookings for a doctor
- **GET /doctors/{doctorId}/available_slots**
  - Get all available slots for a doctor

### Slot Endpoints

- **POST /slots/{slotId}/book**
  - Book a slot

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

chore(doc): setup swagger, add doctor documentation

README.md, after:

# Doctor Booking System API

A NestJS-based API for managing doctor appointment slots and bookings.

## Description

This API allows doctors to create appointment slots with various recurrence options, and patients to book available slots.

## Features

- Doctor management
- Slot creation with recurrence options
- Appointment booking
- Viewing available slots and booked appointments

## Technologies Used

- NestJS
- TypeORM
- PostgreSQL
- Docker

## Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose
- Node.js (for local development)
- Yarn or `npm` (for local development)

### Running with Docker

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd doctor-booking-system-api
   ```

2. Start the application with Docker Compose:

   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

3. The API will be available at <http://localhost:3000>

### Running Locally

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd doctor-booking-system-api
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   yarn install
   ```

3. Create a `.env` file with the following content:

   ```
   DATABASE_HOST=localhost
   DATABASE_PORT=5432
   DATABASE_USER=postgres
   DATABASE_PASSWORD=postgres
   DATABASE_NAME=doctor_booking
   PORT=3000
   ```

4. Start the application:

   ```bash
   yarn start:dev
   ```

5. The API will be available at <http://localhost:3000>

## API Documentation

The API documentation is available at http://localhost:3000/api when the application is running. This interactive documentation is powered by Swagger UI and allows you to:

- View all available endpoints
- See request and response schemas
- Test endpoints directly from the browser

### Health Check

- **GET /health**
  - Returns the health status of the API

### Doctor Endpoints

- **POST /doctors**
  - Create a new doctor
- **GET /doctors**
  - Get all doctors
- **GET /doctors/{id}**
  - Get a doctor by ID
- **GET /doctors/{doctorId}/slots**
  - Get all slots for a doctor
- **POST /doctors/{doctorId}/slots**
  - Create slots for a doctor
- **GET /doctors/{doctorId}/bookings**
  - Get all bookings for a doctor
- **GET /doctors/{doctorId}/available_slots**
  - Get all available slots for a doctor

### Slot Endpoints

- **POST /slots/{slotId}/book**
  - Book a slot

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
